.. _dm1097:

OAK-D-CM4
=========

`Buy it on Luxonis shop <https://shop.luxonis.com/collections/all-in-one-dev-kits/products/depthai-rpi-compute-module-4-edition>`__

.. thumbnail:: /_static/images/DM1097/DM1097_up.png

Overview
********

**OAK-D-CM4** is based off of the :ref:`OAK-D-CM3 <bw1097>` and it combines a host (RPi CM4) and the
:ref:`OAK-SoM` to allow for a fully standalone and integrated solution for real-time `Spatial AI <https://docs.luxonis.com/en/latest/pages/spatial-ai/>`__.

The biggest difference between OAK-D-CM4 and :ref:`OAK-D-CM3 <bw1097>` architecture is that OAK-D-CM4 integrates a CM4 module,
has gigabit ethernet, and is populated with MagJack supporting PoE. PoE can be used with additional PoE Hat. CM4 modules also have WiFi and Bluetooth connectivity.

Most OAK-D-CM4 devices have eMMC memory on-board. If you would like to flash a new image to it, follow
the :ref:`tutorial here <Flashing an image to the eMMC>`. :ref:`OAK-SoM` is connected to the RPi CM4 via USB2 lines (on PCB).

Hardware specifications
***********************

.. include:: /pages/includes/oak-d-sensors.rst

.. include:: /pages/rvc/includes/rvc2_inside.rst

.. include:: /pages/includes/depth_90_800P.rst

Dimensions and Weight
*********************

* Width: 110 mm
* Height: 60 mm
* Length: 27 mm
* Weight: 106g

.. thumbnail:: /_static/images/DM1097/DM1097_dim.jpg

Board Layout
************

.. thumbnail:: /_static/images/DM1097/DM1097.jpg

.. thumbnail:: /_static/images/DM1097/DM1097_side.jpg

.. include:: /pages/includes/rvc2_power_consumption_rpi.rst

.. include:: /pages/includes/rvc2_operating_temp.rst


Limitations
***********

If the OAK-D-CM4 device does not come with a built-in WiFi module, a Tenda Wi-Fi dongle is included in the box of the device as a workaround.
To enable the dongle, you will need to install the necessary drivers. These drivers come pre-installed on the V10 (or higher) OAK-CM4-POE 64bit RPi OS image (available `here <https://drive.google.com/drive/u/1/folders/1O50jPpGj_82jkAokdrsG--k9OBQfMXK5>`__).

Alternatively, you can the steps below (`source <https://stackoverflow.com/questions/76495004/installing-tenda-w311mi-usb-adabter-on-ubuntu-22-04>`_) to install the drivers manually:

.. code-block:: bash

    sudo apt-get install build-essential git dkms linux-headers-$(uname -r)
    git clone https://github.com/McMCCRU/rtl8188gu.git
    cd rtl8188gu
    make
    sudo make install
    sudo apt install --reinstall linux-firmware 
    sudo reboot

After rebooting, the Tenda USB dongle should be operational.

Note that the additional CSI connector on the OAK-D-CM4 doesn't work by default.

3D Models
*********

- Board STEP files `here <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-hardware/tree/master/DM1097_DepthAI_Compute_Module_4/3D_Models>`__

Files
*****

* `Altium Design Files <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-hardware/tree/master/DM1097_DepthAI_Compute_Module_4/PCB>`__
* `Assembly Drawing <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-hardware/blob/master/DM1097_DepthAI_Compute_Module_4/Docs/Assembly%20Drawing%20PDF/Production.PDF>`__
* `Assembly Outputs <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-hardware/tree/master/DM1097_DepthAI_Compute_Module_4/Docs/Assembly%20Outputs>`__
* `Fabrication Drawing <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-hardware/blob/master/DM1097_DepthAI_Compute_Module_4/Docs/Fabrication%20Drawing%20PDF/Production.PDF>`__
* `Fabrication Outputs <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-hardware/tree/master/DM1097_DepthAI_Compute_Module_4/Docs/Fabrication%20Outputs>`__
* `Schematic <https://github.com/luxonis/depthai-hardware/blob/master/DM1097_DepthAI_Compute_Module_4/Docs/Schematic%20PDF/Production.PDF>`__


.. include::  /pages/includes/footer-short.rst
